`swift-doc` is a documentation generator for projects 
which are written in the Swift programming language. 
It collects all classes, structures, enumerations, and protocols 
as well as top-level type aliases, functions, and variables 
in a project's Swift source code. 
It also reads the comments in the source code 
and then renders a documentation
which lists all declared symbols combined with their explanatory comments.

Because of this, `swift-doc` is the ideal tool to build documentation intended for the users of a Swift library,
but it can also be used to generate the documentation of an iOS or macOS app.

Currently, there are two output formats available:

- **html**: Generates a website.
  
  [Here you can find an example](https://swift-doc-preview.netlify.app/) of
  [SwiftMarkup's](https://github.com/SwiftDocOrg/SwiftMarkup) documentation rendered as a website.

- **commonmark**: Generates markdown files in the CommonMark markdown format. 
  The files generated by `swift-doc` are build with specific file names 
  and a specific folder structure,
  so they can be used for publication to your project's 
  [GitHub Wiki](https://docs.github.com/en/communities/documenting-your-project-with-wikis/about-wikis).
  
  [Here you can find an example](https://github.com/SwiftDocOrg/Alamofire/wiki) of
  [Alamofire's](https://github.com/Alamofire/Alamofire/) documentation rendered in a GitHub wiki.

`swift-doc` only reads the Swift source code of a project. 
It does not need to compile or run the project
to generate the documentation. 
Because of this, creating documentation with `swift-doc` is very fast. 
And you can run `swift-doc` on Linux to generate the documentation, 
even if the project would require building with Xcode on macOS. 
This can simplify building the documentation in your CI pipeline, 
because you don't need to execute it on a machine with macOS. 

But this approach also comes with some downsides.
As `swift-doc` only operates on the source code, 
it has some limitations: 
It can build  documentation only for projects that are fully written in Swift.
It can't build documentation for projects which have a codebase that has mixed Objective-C and Swift code.

This guide leads you through all the needed steps to set up `swift-doc` 
to generate a documentation for your project.
It's split into the following parts:

1. [Set up swift-doc to generate documentation for your project](01-setup-swift-doc.md)
   1. [Using the GitHub action](01-github-action.md)
   2. [Using the command-line tool](01-command-line-tool.md)
2. [Understand documentation comments](02-documentation-format.md)
3. [Common problems when using swift-doc](03-common-problems.md)
